Hello and welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
In today's tutorial we're going to have some fun.
We're going to have a look and artificial intelligence actually going through that maze that we've been
talking about so long and is going to use kill learning to navigate its way and find the way out.
And we'll see what happens to the q values was going to happen to the policy and so on.
So let's have a look.
We're going to be using some materials kindly provided by the Berkeley University.
So if you go to a dot Burke Lee the R K E L E Why don't you just go to that link or you'll see this
Web site and hear what we're going to be looking at is the need to go to we're going to go to PacMan
projects.
I think Pacman projects and here if you scroll down and you look at have been forced learning this is
what we're working with.
So here you can download the zip archive So that's if you want to.
So you don't have to this is we're not going to go through the solution together in this trial just
letting you know where this is all from because we're very like we really appreciate that UC Berkeley
has made these materials available.
But if you do wish to experiment with this on your own.
Just bear in mind this is not part.
It's going to be part of our courses as part of the Berkeley course.
I'm going sure how it works.
For illustration purposes but if you do want to experiment with this you can find it here.
The zip archive and all the instructions as well.
And we're just going to go into Python right away.
And first thing I want to show you is that here we've got the licensing information so this is what
I mean.
We're very lucky that they said we are free to use or extend these projects for educational purposes
provided you know distribution publish solutions which we're not going to do.
You retain this notice which we have and you provide a clear archbishop to UC Berkeley including a link
to which we also have.
So once again if you'd like to learn more there is a link.
You can have a look and thank you very much all these people who have worked on this project so here's
the great world there we're going to be working if there's a solution there.
You would have to in order to make it work you'd have to solve it yourself or possibly find a solution.
Maybe some of your some people somebody you know might help you out with that.
If again you want to you don't have to because we're just going to look at it on this screen right now.
So after we've created all those files we could just want you over here.
So there are some parameters that are involved in this whole world and we're not going to just show
you what it looks like if we want it.
So let's try to launch it in manual mode.
So if I go minus one of these panoramas your manual so I can command the control agent.
So here you can see all grid so I can go up up so you can see that it's taking action starting and started
in states where I was.
And then you saw that I pressed up took action Norf and first time I ended up in zero once I did go
up.
But second time I took action Norf and I ended in the same sad didn't move.
So something happened you know the randomness happened I either went left or right.
And by default the parameters are set.
You can see here by default they're set to exactly what we discussed that that how often action results
in unintended direction.
Twenty percent of the time to 10 percent to the left since the right.
So if I go up and say I went up I go right.
I went right right.
Now didn't happen.
Right again and right.
And I'm finished but in this implementation you have to click again to get out of this final outputs
are you out of there.
Just like again and you're finished.
That's a terminal state so we can run our manual.
You can see that if I go right right right left up.
So here what we saw previously that the agent wouldn't go straight up right.
What's the point of getting up if there's a chance of going into the pit.
So let's see what the agent would do.
It would go left and go west here so go west and you see I clicked left but it went up.
And here I would click right and I end up in that final exit say and you actually got a reward equal
to one.
So that's what it looks like manually.
Now let's actually hook up an AI to this and let it go through.
So let's do an H here and let's add some Brandner.
So let me just see what I typed here so hopefully you can see PI's and grid world.
Why then here minus our means.
That's the reward for living.
So I've got two of them so I probably should remove this one.
So minus k is how many iterations.
That's way too many iterations.
Let's do less Let's do like 10 iterations.
That should be enough.
Minus a is Agent.
What type of agent don't want to do honor and damage and some value agent or Q.
Q So I want to.
Q q learning agent doing this minus s is what is s speed so that's way too large a force that just used
the full speed for now minus our is living penalty's so by default is 0.
So remember at the very start we started 0 living penances so let's call it also 0 0.
Can just remove this parameter.
And d is what is the discount.
So I just kind of factor so let's keep it at zero point.
And so very similar to what we are starting off in this section of the course so let's run that.
OK way too fast again.
Oh actually so.
OK so you can see how he's exploring.
And so so far he's hit negative three times and you can see how the cube values are being updated in
these squares.
So these are cube they sort of 0.
You can see now the cube values.
He's learned that.
Again this one is a bit different the implemented because once you get to the final stage you have to
get out of it.
You have to just click one more button to exit.
And so it's very close to one but not exactly one.
But at the same time you can see that here you know the value slowly kind of crystallizing and zero
point a slowly getting somewhere but so far they're kind of zeroes because he doesn't have enough information
to understand what's going on.
OK.
So let's see let's see what happens here.
Exploring exploring exploring what's going to happen.
Well it's been a while.
And don't forget there's some randomness involved here.
So there is that good one a few times.
Now he only gets 10 iterations.
So he's got to learn fast.
OK I need you there.
Let's see what's going on.
Come on.
Get out of that maze already.
And yes 10 episodes so average it turns out that that's not really interested in that.
So here let's see.
I've never seen enough of a click.
Right.
There we go.
So you can see this is the policy that he came up with.
Even through just 10 episodes he's already got a pulse.
OK.
We're going to go up a bump and here I'm going to go down here I'm going to go down here I'm going to
go into the wall and then I'm going to bounce and we're here.
That's pretty cool.
OK.
So now let's increase the speed.
What was a parameter s there.
And it's like double lawlessness.
That's quadruple the speed and that's increase the number of iterations so let's say 20 to ration this
time and let's see if he can get through a bit more now.
So you can see he's going a bit faster.
And he's learning he's learning that it's not really you know out of this state there's not many good
actions or you know these actions that the right and straight are not that good.
Definitely this was definitely not good.
He still needs to learn that so from here is also good.
You can see that this action is pretty good.
All right.
What did he get.
OK so interesting policy here you really decide to go up.
Just not enough information so let's let's do that and let's increase the speed to like 100 super fast
and the number of iterations will give him 100 iterations this time it's run that seems like crazy fast
and you can see that because there's so many more iterations.
He's got more information more opportunity to experiment and to actually build out this this matrix
or matrix these values for every single state.
He now knows OK you can see that zero point eighty nine.
Where did we say in our zero point 86.
Another thing to remember is that the value of any given state.
Remember that formula we had is the maximum of the q values.
Remember that thing that we came up with short cut for.
So what is what with the value in this state be the V of this state.
It would be 0.18 because that's the highest out of the four here the value of this state 0.7 you want
the value of this day is there is point sixty one and so on.
So that's something to remember.
I remember when I was up I think we had like zero point eighty six or something so praecox.
And so if we go next year I'll just disappear or disappear again and this could make it come back.
OK.
Slowly slowly slowly filling up some spaces.
I see.
And it's also pretty random because not only the environment has randomness but also the way he explores
that the star really doesn't know the policy is he's exploring at random.
Just keeps disappearing.
I don't understand why.
Anyways we'll see what happens if we increase the number here and here should pretty much take the same
amount of time if the speed doesn't have a cap on it.
OK so he's like he has more opportunity to explore things.
OK let's see how it all goes.
And you can see the values are converging they go up and down depending you know because there is some
randomness and he might end up like in the pit even though he goes like this way.
But at the same time they're slowly starting to converge to some sort of values and q values.
OK probably a thousand is a bit too much in terms of time.
It doesn't look like the speed is proportionally increasing as well.
So it might cut that part.
I mean like Regis's speed while this is very long you don't have to watch to the end of this tutorial
I just want to experiment with quite a bit.
So to give you some like examples of what we've been working through but you get the point that it goes
through all of this it has some randomness like Rambler's built into his behavior.
So even when it has like a policy it will still continue exploring so it won't just like once it has
a basic policy it won't just continue following its policy.
It will still experiment with other variations once in a while in order to enhance its policy maybe
it hasn't found the best policy already right away.
Maybe it can improve the policy and that's why even after so many iterations you can still see some
random effects is sometimes jumps in to random states not just because of the randomness in the environment
but also because there is some level like a parameter which you could control which you could set up
for your agent saying that you know most of the time 80 percent of the time do whatever your policy
tells you to do but 20 percent of the time you just have some fun experiment and see what happens and
use that information that you gather to update your policy.
OK this is taking way too long.
Lets try that again.
Yeah so thats how the agent learns in different states.
Maybe its just one one more just out of curiosity.
So is there anything else we can change about it.
Iterations.
Okay okay.
Have a look.
Yeah well we could change the discussion for example.
So in this case we could say K minus 100 minus a q minus two and minus are OK two thousand.
So reward.
We want to keep it maybe let's keep it at 0.04 But let's say set again.
Let's keep the reward at zero point zero for every time.
And then here we're going to say that the discount is not zero point nine but it's like zero point point
five.
So it gets discounted quite a lot as you go through the game.
So it actually now it'll be incentivized to be closer to the finish rather than further route the states
close to finish will get high value so you can see that the values really drops off.
It's not as as green as it was before.
So here you can see that this is the policy now.
So it goes like that like that like I like that very similar to what we saw before just probably only
differences from here jumping straight into here.
So that's one.
And OK let's just run one more.
This is so much fun.
Let's just run one more.
So K minus a k a 100 A Q discount keep it as it was original so like just run this basic vanilla set
up ok ok ok.
It's going to see if it will show us the policy.
And yes we got the policy.
Yes.
Good finish.
So here we've got the policy.
You know this is familiar.
Remember that time when we saw that the AI outsmarted the human.
When boom into the wall to go there and boom into the wall to go like that to increase that problem.
So there we go.
That is an example of artificial intelligence in action.
Very very basic simple kill earnings so no deep learning at this stage.
But at the same time it's already pretty smart.
And I hope you enjoyed tonight's the Tauriel and once again thank you to UC Berkeley and I hope you
enjoyed today's tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then enjoy.
I.